---
layout: post 
title: What Makes a good Anime for me 
---

What makes a good anime? This is a very subjective question, and everyone's answer will be different. It could be the characters, the story, the plot, or just plain action Shounen --appeals to the teen demographic through action-filled shows. For me, many different aspects make a good anime and the following blog will cover my 5 big reasons in no specific order.   

# Reason 1 
The first reason is how well the anime resonates with me or if the anime boring for me. Anime that resonates with me would be anime that creates a nostalgic feel, like a show that includes any of my childhood hobbies such as quite literally any sport, or anything related to music. Relatability in anime is such a big factor for me when I am watching anime. For example, a show that is currently airing is Blue Box, and the main character(s) Taiki, Chinatsu, and Hina all go to a sports school where they have to attend competitions. Both Chitasu and Hina are the best in their sports respectively -- basketball and gymnastics -- but it seems Taiki needs to catch up in his respective sport -- badminton. As someone who has played a bunch of sports (basketball, tennis mainly, handball, swimming, badminton, ping pong, cross country, track and field, baseball, softball, League technically haha esport =]), I can't help but get the burning sensation of competing again. Anyway, enough of Blue Box, cause that anime will get a blog post later, this anime is too good.

I won't lie, an anime that I found very boring is SHOSHIMIN: How to Become Ordinary. I can't relate too much to the show, and honestly, for me, the show was just overall pretty boring. It's basically about a girl who wants a guy to get rid of his detective past, solving problems for his school to marry him. But the entire 10 episodes, they ended up solving mysteries, but in my opinion, these mysteries were very wack. Like one of the mysteries was like "We have 4 cupcakes here, 2 hours later, but 1 cupcake is missing and no one in the room has eaten any, what happened" or like "How did this guy make coffee this freaking good?" There is a season 2 coming out of this anime, but I don't think I'm going to watch it. I also heard that this anime is similar to Hyouka, which WAS on my watch list, but uhh isn't anymore =). But I will say, the anime visuals look damn nice, and there was one looming mystery that these 2 solved that I thought was pretty smart and cool. When watching SHOSHIMIN, I expected it to be similar to Apothecary Diaries with a lot more at stake.  

# Reason 2
The next reason is animation. Not only does this include clean fight scenes and not clunky animation, but I am also going to group the overall colour, camera work, and art style here. When these action scenes are clean from studios like Ufotable or MAPPA, it makes me as the viewer feel a lot more immersed in the fight, and essentially I am a spectator in the fight -- basically a /gamemode 2. Having good animation is important for me because it allows the director to express the intended emotions and tone of a scene fully. The choice of art style, camera work, and colour can help set the tone for the series. Spoilers, kinda? For The Promised Neverland. I warned ya. One of my favourite examples of this would be the library scene in The Promised Neverland. There is a library scene where Ray, Norman, Emma, and some others are in the library late at night trying to think of a way to escape the orphanage because they know what'll happen to them. However, instead of having the camera directly on them, the camera placement would be moving in the shadows of the bookshelves as they were talking, as if someone was watching them. Also, within that scene, the bookshelves seemed even more contrasty than before. Then after the talk, when they are leaving the library, if they get caught, they would be punished. So, the camera now goes to a first-person view for one of the kids' POVs as they are slowly going back to their rooms. 

I have watched shows just because of their bright and vibrant colours. For example, an anime I am currently watching is ZENSHU, which is an Isekai (gets thrown into another world where they know nothing, but it is something related to what they were good at in the real world), Insomniacs After School, Jellyfish Can't Swim In The Night are all examples of visually stunning anime (but they are decent anime at best). Unique art styles also draw me into anime, something like Tatsuki Fujimoto's Look Back (Great show by the way if you are a creator in any sort), and Ping Pong: The Animation (unique visuals, great hand-drawn show)

# Reason 3
The third reason is the plot. For me, the plot of an anime doesn't matter too much, I am pretty open to all different types of anime except for any Hentai/Harem animes. Like currently I am watching "The Apothecary Diaries S1&2" which is a Chinese historical Drama with a lot of Slice of Life portions integrated into the show, which I never thought I would watch this kind of show.  ow, this includes many things, for me, this includes character development, complex characters, having complex stories that the message can be taken in multiple ways, and the pacing. The first thing I value is complex characters. This includes the character's motivations, hobbies, friendships, and any dilemmas that make them feel real. I think that the best stories are created when we are so heavily engaged with the character that we start questioning anime characters' decisions as if they were a real person or a friend. If a character makes a questionable decision or needs to make a decision that is morally in grey areas, I would always question "What would I do in their given situation? How would I handle it, and how would the outcome be different?" furthering my own philosophical ideals and logical decision making. I would also like my characters to develop as the story progresses, instead of making the same mistake 500 times and not learning from them, adding to the realism of the characters piece I was talking about earlier. However, character development is not everything for me, there are times when I would like to turn my brain off and watch anything Shounen with endless action-packed fight scenes and minimal storytelling.

Another reason is storytelling and having a story where the messages can be interpreted in multiple ways. I think that a great story should have lessons that can take multiple perspectives instead of focusing on one singular perspective. When there is multi-faceted interpretations of the story, then it becomes something different people can experience different perspectives based on their own values and beliefs. Learning about how other people experienced the same anime I love so much through Reddit or YouTube helps me understand different perspectives and beliefs. Just like in real life, where most situations have no real answer, the story should be immersive to give us multiple perspectives. 

The last point is pacing. There's no real indicator of pacing for me, because it depends on the genre for me. Generally, I will be okay with slow pacing if I know that parts of the anime will be slow and the episode count of the anime being slow is in reason. For example, when I get around to Steins;Gate, I know that the first 8ish episodes are slow, and I think it'll be fine given the amount of positive reviews I hear from this anime. I also heard Steins;Gate's episodes past episode 8 draw a lot from these 8 episodes, just like Goblin the Kdrama (I haven't watched this but that's what I also heard about Goblin), so you can't really skip these 8 episodes. For me, 8 episodes is reasonable, however, some of my friends are One Piece friends, and they tell me to watch One Piece even though the "first 200 episodes are slow asf". Yeah, I ain't watching IF the first 200 episodes are slow, I would much rather read One Piece because it should, in theory, be much faster than watching.  

# Reason 4
The next is the soundtrack, not just the opening and ending songs, but background music too. For me, music means a lot to me, and I believe that music is a way to express your emotions indirectly to the audience. A great soundtrack is a way to enhance the storytelling in a way that makes good moments feel great and sad moments feel heartbreaking. Music is a powerful way of storytelling because you can amplify emotions and set the tone. A great example of this is Look Backs' main song. Even though Look Back was released a few months ago (October 4th in North American theatres), the main song somehow conveys a meaning of nostalgia to me. I don't want to go too much into it here because I will have a specific analysis of Look Back, especially this song and what it means, so that's all ya get =)

For me, a lot of the music I listen to holds a special nostalgic place in my heart, and it's a way for me to reminisce and remember the good memories I had in the past. For example, Feel Special by Twice holds a special place because it was the first Twice comeback I got to listen to, More & More by Twice was the first comeback I stayed up for Twice, Wonderland by Ateez was the first ever dance performance I had, Queendom by Red Velvet was the song I would listen to a lot in first year to go through the struggles in University. The list could go on and on. So having a great soundtrack in an anime allows me to connect with the emotions, and weight of the character's struggles and their journies considerably. Even months after watching a show, listening to its soundtrack instantly takes me back, allowing me to relive the story, the emotions, and the lessons learned.

# Reason 5
Alright, this last point may feel dumb, but it's just how I am currently feeling in life when I am watching an anime. Honestly, this is quite the wild card between all 5 of my reasons and I think has the most impact compared to the other 4 reasons. Generally, I tailor what I am watching in tandem to how I am feeling in life currently. This affects how much the anime resonates with me as well because when I am feeling down, I am more open to being able to feel emotions. For example, when I was feeling lost in life/depressed/anxious, I watch more Slice of Life shows that give me a light at the end of the tunnel and push myself to work at least a bit towards my goals every day. Shows I've watched during these times and have meant a lot to me were Your Lie in April, Yuru Camp, Hajime No Ippo, and A Place Further Than The Universe. However, if I am not feeling this way, these shows are not so great, and I generally find them really boring because as said above, I only open myself to feeling emotions when I am down. Some examples of shows that did not resonate with me, but I know that people enjoyed are Violet Evergarden, Tsukigakirei, and 5 Centimeters Per Second. When I am not feeling down, I still like to keep to myself, but I am highly motivated and disciplined, so I like to watch Shounen shows such as Attack on Titan, Demon Slayer, and Jujutsu Kaisen.

 To me, it kind of feels lame to rate shows based on how I am currently feeling in life, but I can't get rid of this feeling when watching and rating anime. I wish I could find a way to remove that aspect when I am rating shows and give a logical rating of these shows based on the other reasons I suggested, but I cannot unfortunately. I feel bad for shows like Violet Evergarden, which I know the meaning and philosophy behind the show (I only watched the first season, not the 2 movies by the way), and it is highly appliable to my life, but I can't apply it because I watched it at the wrong time in my life and I can't rewatch it because I know what happens already generally. 



